README.md, before:


# Character Selection Demo
![](./ReadmeAssets/UIDemo_01.png)
For this project, I decided to create a character selection UI demo for a hypothetical multiplayer game inspired by titles such as Marvel Rivals and Valorant. As a programmer, my goal was to implement as many of the UI animations and shaders as possible procedurally using tweens and Unity's Shader Graph, rather than relying on traditional keyframing, external animation tools or prerendered static backgrounds. This approach allowed greater flexibility and more dynamic control over Shaders,UI transitions and interactions directly through code and the Unity Editor.

# Web Demo
[Web Demo- PC recommended](https://rbocarro.github.io/UIDemo02/)

# Tools Used

## PrimeTween
This project untilises PrimeTween for handling all UI animations and transitions. I evaluated it against other tweening libraries such as DOTween, LeanTween and found PrimeTween to offer better performance. It allows for  easy chaining of tweens and sequencing of animations without additional overhead. 

#### Link:
[PrimeTween](https://github.com/KyryloKuzyk/PrimeTween)


## ScriptableObject
![](./ReadmeAssets/ScriptableObject.png)<br/>
Unity’s ScriptableObject system was used to manage character data, including abilities, artwork, and profile information. This allows game designers to create and modify character data directly in the Unity Editor without altering code, promoting a clear separation between data and logic, making the system highly extensible and designer-friendly.

## Shader Graph
![](./ReadmeAssets/shaderGraph01.png)
I used Unity’s Shader Graph to create the  scrolling background featured in the demo. The animated dot pattern is achieved through UV tiling and time-based displacement, which is then masked using an animated Simplex Noise node. A clipping threshold controls the visibility of the dots within the noise mask, producing a dynamic, organic motion effect. The grid overlay is animated in a similar manner, utilizing UV tiling and displacement.

## Improvements
If given more time, This project could benefit from improvements such as cleaning up code structure to improve readability and better compartmentalised functions.

+ Calculation of Simplex noise is expensive, especially in 3 dimensions so steps could be made to reduce computation reqirement such as using a prerendered video of the noise animation.

Commit message:

Update README with images and AudioManager section
Added new images and GIFs to illustrate PrimeTween and Shader Graph usage in the README. Introduced a new section describing the AudioManager implementation, including its improvements over the standard approach. Added related assets to the ReadmeAssets directory.

README.md, after:


# Character Selection Demo
![](./ReadmeAssets/UIDemo_01.png)
For this project, I decided to create a character selection UI demo for a hypothetical multiplayer game inspired by titles such as Marvel Rivals and Valorant. As a programmer, my goal was to implement as many of the UI animations and shaders as possible procedurally using tweens and Unity's Shader Graph, rather than relying on traditional keyframing, external animation tools or prerendered static backgrounds. This approach allowed greater flexibility and more dynamic control over Shaders,UI transitions and interactions directly through code and the Unity Editor.

# Web Demo
[Web Demo- PC recommended](https://rbocarro.github.io/UIDemo02/)

# Tools Used

## PrimeTween
![](./ReadmeAssets/PrimeTween01.gif)
This project untilises PrimeTween for handling all UI animations and transitions. I evaluated it against other tweening libraries such as DOTween, LeanTween and found PrimeTween to offer better performance. It allows for  easy chaining of tweens and sequencing of animations without additional overhead. 

#### Link:
[PrimeTween](https://github.com/KyryloKuzyk/PrimeTween)


## ScriptableObject
![](./ReadmeAssets/ScriptableObject.png)<br/>
Unity’s ScriptableObject system was used to manage character data, including abilities, artwork, and profile information. This allows game designers to create and modify character data directly in the Unity Editor without altering code, promoting a clear separation between data and logic, making the system highly extensible and designer-friendly.

## Shader Graph
![](./ReadmeAssets/shaderGraph01.png)![](./ReadmeAssets/ShaderGraph02.gif)
I used Unity’s Shader Graph to create the  scrolling background featured in the demo. The animated dot pattern is achieved through UV tiling and time-based displacement, which is then masked using an animated Simplex Noise node. A clipping threshold controls the visibility of the dots within the noise mask, producing a dynamic, organic motion effect. The grid overlay is animated in a similar manner, utilizing UV tiling and displacement.


## AudioManager
![](./ReadmeAssets/AudioManager.png)
I implemented a static AudioManager in Unity to handle sound playback. The system is based on Brackeys’ Audio Manager tutorial but improved for efficiency by using aa Dictionary lookup to access audio clips instead of relying on FindObjectOfType, which performs a linear search.The AudioManager supports a tag-based sound classification system, allowing sounds to be grouped into categories such as Music or SFX. This enables fine-grained control over audio attributes like volume and mixing, both globally and per category. 

## Improvements
If given more time, This project could benefit from improvements such as cleaning up code structure to improve readability and better compartmentalised functions.

+ Calculation of Simplex noise is expensive, especially in 3 dimensions so steps could be made to reduce computation reqirement such as using a prerendered video of the noise animation.
